# ECE 368 Data Structures

Software tools:  
Visual Studio Code  
GCC 7.4 Compiler for Windows  
C11 standard  

[Project 1](https://github.com/Andrew-Gan/ece368/blob/master/proj_1/sorting.c) - Shell Sort    
The program utilizes ‘Shell Insertion’ and ‘Improved Bubble’ to sort an unsorted list of integers from an input text file. The ‘Shell Insertion’ sort makes use of the three smooth number sequence as the gap, while the ‘Improved Bubble’ sort uses a sequence of integers generated by dividing the previous integer by 1.3 as the gap. Both sorting algorithms are then run using the same test case and the runtime of both algorithms are recorded for comparison and analysis.    
  
[Project 2](https://github.com/Andrew-Gan/ece368/blob/master/proj_2/huff.c) - Huffman Coding  
Huffman coding is an algorithm used for file compression. By computing the frequency of characters appearing in a text file, a binary tree is created that assigns a character to a tree node. The path taken from the root node to the leaf node is the Huffman code of that character. Characters that appear more frequently have a shorter Huffman coding, which allows for the output file to store the same content as the input file, but with a shorter binary representation.  
  
[Project 3](https://github.com/Andrew-Gan/ece368/blob/master/proj_3/pathfinder.c) - Dijkstra's Algorithm  
An algorithm widely used for determining the shortest path between two nodes on a map, Dijkstra's Algorithm locates the nearest nodes from the source nodes and calculates the distance of all the linked nodes. The next unvisited shortest node to the source node is the new point of reference and the process repeats. The algorithm proceeds to expand from the source node in all directions until the destination node is located, and the path taken is returned.
